if grandmothers were walking down the
street and being mugged or attacked at
the rate that they're getting hit online
you would have the National Guard
policing every street in America and so
governments need to tactically engage
with digital crime in the same way that
they're policing the street
[Music]
hello everybody today I have the
opportunity to speak with Chris Olsen
who's CEO of the media Trust
Company his company is involved is
occupies the Forefront of attempts to
make the online World a safer place he
mostly works with corporations to do
that mostly to protect their digital
assets but I was interested in a more
broad ranging conversation discussing
the dangers of online criminality in
general a substantial proportion of
online interaction is Criminal that's
particularly true if you include
pornography within that perview because
porn itself constitutes about 20 to 25%
of internet traffic but there's all
sorts of criminal activity as well and
so Chris and I talked about for example
the people who are most vulnerable to
criminal activity which includes Elder L
people who are particularly susceptible
to romance
scams um initiated on dating websites
but then undertaken off those sites and
also
to fishing scams on their devices that
indicate for example that something's
gone wrong with the device and that they
need to be repaired in a manner that
also places them in the hands of
criminals the sick and infirm are often
targeted with false medical offers
17-year-old men are targeted with offers
for illicit drug purchase and juvenile
girls 14 13 that age who are interested
in modeling careers for example are
frequently targeted by human traffickers
this is a major problem the vast
majority of elderly people are targeted
by criminals on a regular basis they're
very well identified demographically
they know their ages they know where
they live they know a lot about their
online usage habits their they have
personal details of the sort that can be
gleaned as a consequence of continual
interaction with the online world and so
I talked to Chris about all of that and
about what how we might conceptualize
this as a society when we're deciding to
bring order to what is really the
borderless the ultimate borderless Wild
West Community and that's the
hyperconnected and possibly increasingly
pathological
online World join us for that well hello
Mr Olsen thank you for agreeing to do
this we met at the Presidential Prayer
Breakfast not so long ago and we had an
engaging conversation about the online
world and its perils and I thought it
would be extremely interesting for me
and hopefully for everyone else to
engage in a serious conversation about
well the spread of general criminality
and misb Behavior online and so do you
want to maybe start by telling people
what you do and then we'll delve more
deeply into the general problem great
yes and and thank you Jordan thanks for
having me I'm the CEO and founder of the
media Trust Company not intended to be
an oxymoron our primary job is to help
big Tech and digital media companies not
cause harm when they monetize audiences
and when they Target digital content so
let's delve into the domains of possible
harm so you're working with large
companies can you give us who like what
sort of companies do you work with and
and then maybe you could delineate for
us the potential domains of
harm yeah so I work with companies uh
that own digital assets that people
visit and I I think maybe to set a a
quick premise cyber security is a mature
industry designed to monetize the ceso
uh the chief security officer
um generally protecting machines so
there's a mindset geared to making sure
that the digital uh asset is not harming
servers the company or government
data our difference is that we're
helping companies that are in digital so
think big media companies we're helping
them protect from harming consumers
which is the difference between digital
crime which is going to Target people
and cyber security which is generally
targeting corporates and governments and
machines so
do now do you do you have your does your
work involve protection of the companies
themselves also against online criminal
activity or is it mostly a mostly aimed
at stopping the companies themselves
from what would you say mostly I suppose
inadvertently harming their consumers in
pursuit of their Enterprise and their
monetization yeah so so so the great
question and I think that's where the
the heart of the matter is so our our
Prim job is to watch the makeup of what
targets digital uh citizens devices the
internet is made up of roughly 80%
third-party code and what that means is
when a consumer is visiting a News
website when they're checking sport
scores when they're visiting social
media the predominance of of activity
that's running on their machine is
coming from companies that are not the
owner of the website or the mobile app
that they're visiting that third-party
code is where this Mystery Begins so who
actually controls the impact on the
consumer when they're visiting an asset
that is mostly made up of source code
and content coming from other companies
so our job is to look at that thirdparty
content discern what is good and bad
based on company policies based on what
might be harming the consumer and then
informing those companies what is what
is violating and how they can go about
stopping that what sort of thirdparty
code
concerns might they face or have they
faced what what are the specifics that
you're looking for maybe you could also
provide us with some more some of the
more egregious examples of the kinds of
things that you're fiing out identifying
fiing it out and attempting to stop yeah
so I I think put putting any digital
company um in into the conversation is
is critical so we're we're talking about
tech support scams and romance scams
targeting seniors um that is a an
epidemic um if you're a senior and
you're on the internet on a regular
basis you're being attacked if not daily
um certainly U every week um that is now
a cultural phenomenon there's movies
being uh produced about the the
phenomenon of of seniors being targeted
and attacked online um it's teens so a
17-year-old male is being bombarded with
information on how to buy opioids or
other drugs and having them shipped to
their house if you're a 14-year-old
female and you're interested in modeling
you're being approached by by human
traffickers uh the sick and infirm are
frantically searching the internet for
cures while that's happening they're
having their life savings stolen so our
job is to watch that thirdparty content
in code which is often advertising it's
uh it's it's basically a real estate
play on what keeps the consumer active
on the digital asset um to find that to
to find that problem and then uh give it
back to the company I I can jump in
quickly in in how we go about doing that
so we become a synthetic Persona um
we've been doing this for uh not quite
two decades but but getting on 19 years
um we have physical machines in more
than 120 countries we know how to look
like a senior citizen a teenager someone
with an illness and then we're rendering
digital assets as those personas acting
more or less as a Honeypot to attract
the problem that's coming through the
digital supply chain which runs on our
devices and I think that's a that's
going to be a key part of this
conversation as we go most of that
action is happening with us and so it's
difficult for tech companies and media
companies to understand fully what's
happening to us that's the point of
their monetization right that moment in
time so our job is to detect these
problems um and then then help them make
that go away right okay so okay so you
you set yourself up as a replica of the
potential Target of the scams and then
you can deliver
the information that you gather about
how someone in that vulnerable position
might be interacting with the company's
services in question to keep the
criminals at Bay let's go through these
different categories of vulnerability to
Crime that you described I suspect
there's stories of great interest there
so you started with scams directed as
seniors so I've had people in my own
family targeted by online SC mmers who
were in fact quite successful at making
away with a good proportion of their
life savings in one case and I know that
seniors in particular who grew up in an
environment of high trust especially
with regards to corporate entities
they're not particularly technologically
savvy they're trusting and then you have
the additional comp complication of
course in the case of particularly
elderly seniors that their cognitive
faculties aren't necessarily all that
they once were and and they're often
lonely and isolated too and so that
makes them very straightforward targets
for especially people for people who
worm into their confidence you talked
about was it romance scams on the senior
side it is romance scams on the senior
side okay so so lay all that out tell
tell us some stories and describe to
everybody exactly what they would see
and how this operates okay so a a senior
is joining a dating website um just as
as a teenager or or someone the middle
age would do they're they're looking for
romance there are people on the other
side of that um that are collecting data
on um that senior potentially
interacting with them um once they get
enough information on that particular
senior they're going to start to find
them in other ways send me send me
emails and information let's let's move
off the dating site um they're going to
start calling them on on the phone um as
that starts to evolve it's that
information collection getting them to
do certain things online that sucks them
deeper and deeper in from that moment
forward they become uh very much wed and
emotionally oriented towards that um
person that they're involved with and uh
um you know the theft goes from there
right so you go on a a dating website as
say someone in your
70s you're lonely and looking for
companionship there are scam artists
that are on those dating websites as
well who must have what I suspect they
probably have keywords and profiling
information that enables them to zero in
on people who
are likely targets do you know how how
sophisticated is that like do you think
that the criminals who are engaged in
this activity how good are is their
ability to profile do you think they can
identify ify such things as early signs
of cognitive
degeneration I I think this is organized
crime and they they they have their own
algorithms and processes to identify
people um I I also to your earlier Point
uh people believe what they see on
computers they're they're following
what's being provided to them um which
makes them relatively easy marks so once
that process starts they're reeling them
in if they lose a fish that's no problem
because they're going after um so many
in in in any given day they also have
infrastructure uh in in local markets to
go deal with people personally so this
is this is a a very large criminal
organization that has a lot of
horsepower um to identify and then
attack right okay so do you have any
sense see I hadn't thought about the
full implications of that so obviously
if you were a psychopathic scam
artist posing as a
false participant on a dating web
website would be extremely potentially
extremely fertile ground not only for
seniors who could be scammed out of
their savings but you also mentioned
let's say younger people who are on the
website who might be useful in terms of
human trafficking op operations so do
you have any sense for example of the
proportion of
participants in a given on a given
dating platform that are actually
criminals or psychopaths in Disguise CU
here let me give you an example you you
undoubtedly know about this but there
was a website can't remember the name of
it um unfortunately I believe it was
Canadian that was set up some years ago
to facilitate illicit
Affairs and they enrolled thousands of
people all of whose data was eventually
leaked much of that to Great scandal the
notion was to match people who were
married secretly with other people who
were married to have illicit Affairs
they got an awful lot of men on the
website and almost no women and so they
created tens of thousands if I remember
correctly fake profiles of women to
continue to entice the men to maintain
what I believe was a was a uh monthly
fee for the service um Ashley Madison it
was called right and so so
obviously Our dating website would be
wonderful hunting grounds for any kind
of predator and so do you have any sense
of What proportion of the people who are
participating on online dating sites are
actually Predators criminals I I I don't
know what percentage of of the the the
participants on the sites are predators
but I I where where we come in and in
our expertise is that everyone that is
visiting is giving information into sort
of the the digital ecosystem and so the
the issue from there is that they're
then able to be targeted wherever they
go online so there's information that's
being collected from the site that
they're visiting that is then moving out
into the ecosystem so that wherever they
go they're being pulled back and
targeted um in in an example like in
Ashley Madison a criminal may be able to
get the digital information about the
people whose data was stolen come back
to them months later coming from another
website via email or or SMS text and
then press the attack um at that stage
for for us in becoming a digital Persona
our job is to look like some someone
based on the information that sites have
collected about them so we look like um
an 85-year-old grandmother living in a
senior community when you become that
type of profile no matter who else is
engaging with you online the algorithm
and the content that is going to going
to be served to you is coming from
criminals regardless of their activity
on that particular site that you're
visiting it's simply based on who you
are so artificial intelligence has been
around in use for in digital digital
media and targeting people for
20101 so the initial initial use case
was collecting data on us that was the
the the key initial step um for AI
utilization the Second Step was then
turning that around
and targeting people better right so AI
was first used to collect information
right make make things interesting uh uh
behind the scenes for people second
creating better audience segments which
enable that
targeting this third phase that's
happening today you see Chachi PT and
and the uh llms being used in in regular
use the third big stage is writing
content on our devices on the fly so
regardless of where the criminal actor
is regardless of how they're moving into
the into the ecosystem in what initial
buying point they're able to find that
person write content on the Fly that's
particularly tail tailored to what the
digital ecosystem knows about them to
create the situation where they then
respond and the criminal activity can
occur right and so what that implies as
well then I suppose is
that we're going to see very
sophisticated llm criminals
right who who will be able to this is
The Logical conclusion of what you're
laying out is that they'll be able
to
engage ha so I just saw a video it's
gone viral was released about 3 weeks
ago that portrayed the newest version of
chat
GPT and it's a version that can see you
through the video camera on your phone
and can interact with you very much like
a person so they had this chat GPT
device interacting with a kind of
unkempt um nerdy sort of engineer
character who was preparing for an
interview a job interview and the chat
GPT system was coaching him on his
appearance and his presentation and I
think they used Scarlett Johansson's
voice for the chat GPT bot it was very
very flirtatious very intelligent
extremely perceptive um and was paying
attention to this engineer who was
preparing
his interview like a what would you say
like the girlfriend of his dreams would
if he had someone who was paying more
attention to him that it was ever paid
attention to him in his life
and so I could imagine a system like
that set up to be an optimal criminal
especially if it was also fed all sorts
of information about that person's wants
and likes so so let's delve into that a
little bit how much of a digital
footprint do you suppose like how well
are each of us now replicated online as
a consequence of the criminal or
corporate aggregation of our online
Behavior
so the typical senior for example how
much information would be commonly
available to criminal types about well
the typical senior the typical person
typical 14-year-old for that matter
right the the the majority of their
prior activity that that's uh that
they've engaged in online so uh
corporate digital uh data companies know
a highly High their job is to know as
much about us as possible and then to
target us with information to to
maximize profit right that that's the
core goal um criminals have access to
that data and they're leveraging it just
like a big brand Advertiser would so
they know it's a grandmother and they're
going to put in something that only runs
on the grandmother's device which makes
it very very difficult for big Tech and
digital media companies to see the
problem U before it occurs um I think
another thing that's really important to
understand is this is our most open
border right so we've we've got an idea
of national sovereignty
um there's you know lots of lots of
discussion on whether or not our
Southern border um is as secure as it
should be our actual devices our cell
phones our televisions our our personal
computers are open to source code and
information coming from any country any
person at any time and and typically
resolve to the highest
bidder sleep is a foundation for a
mental and physical health in other
words you've got to have a consistent
nighttime routine to function at your
best but if you're struggling with sleep
then you've got to check out Beam Beam
isn't your run-ofthe-mill sleep aid it's
a concoction carefully crafted to help
you rest without the grogginess that
often accompanies other sleep remedies a
bunch of us here at the daily wire count
on beam's dream powder to knock us out
and sleep better through the night so we
can show up ready for work the next day
just mix beam dream into hot water or
milk stir or froth and then enjoy before
bedtime then wake up feeling refreshed
without the next day grogginess caused
by other Sleep Products dream contains a
powerful allnatural blend of Rishi
magnesium eleanine appenine and melatone
in to help you fall asleep stay asleep
and wake up refreshed and with it now
being available in delicious flavors
like cinnamon cocoa chocolate peanut
butter and mint chip better sleep has
never tasted better and today listeners
of this show can get a special discount
on beam's dream powder get up to 40% off
for a limited time when you go to shop
beam.com Peterson and use code Peterson
at checkout that's shop
for up to 40%
off right right so the Digital World the
virtual world is
a is it a lawless Frontier I mean I
guess one of the problems is like if I'm
targeted by a criminal gang in
Nigeria what the hell can I do about
that I mean the the case I mentioned to
you of my relative who was scammed out
of a good proportion of their life
savings that gang was operating in
Eastern Europe we could more or less
identify who they were but
there was really nothing that could be
done about it I mean these are people
who are operating well out of any
physical proximity but also even out of
hypothetically the jurisdiction of well
say lawmakers in Canada police in police
services in Canada and
so how
Lawless how is it how should we be
conceptualizing the status of
law in the in the online and virtual
world yeah I and and I think this is
where where the major rub is so I'm I'm
going to walk back and and talk about
cyber security as an industry first so
cyber security is relatively mature it
is now geared to monetizing the chief
security officer the Chief Information
um security officer um what that means
it's providing products and services
designed to protect what they are paid
to hold dear which is the corporate
asset so the machines and the data for
the corporation um if you're part of the
government which is where we're going to
go in the conversation then your job as
a CIO or a ceso is to protect government
machines governments will tell you that
they're protecting you right they're
protecting you from digital harm what
that means today is they're protecting
your data on the DMV website that that's
basically the beginning and the end of
cyber security and digital protection
there's a legislation which is occurring
coming from Attorneys General from from
State legislatures um from the federal
government in the US to a degree other
countries seem to be further ahead
seeking to protect people from data
collection um and that's your uh gdpr in
in Europe uh many states in the United
States are um put putting some rules in
place around what corporations can
collect what they can do with the data
the predominant use case is to provide a
consumer with an opt out mechanism most
consumers say Okay I want to read the
content they're not doing a whole lot
with with the opt out compliance um so
that's not been a big uh a big help to
to your typical consumer but it's really
the mindset that's the problem and in
the mindset of corporate and government
that that is at issue and so governments
need to tactically engage on a 247 basis
with digital crime in the same way that
they're policing the street so the the
metaphor would look like this if
grandmothers were walking down the
street and being mugged or attacked at
the rate that they're getting hit online
you would have the National Guard
policing every street in
America the government needs to take
step forward when I say the governments
that is is governments need to take a
step forward and do a better job at
policing people tactically and that does
not mean that they're going after big
Tech or digital media companies it means
that they're protecting people with the
mindset um that they're going to go
ahead and and cooperate with the the
digital ecosystem to do a better job to
reduce overall crime right so so your
point appears to be that we have
mechanisms in place like the ones that
are offered by your company that protect
the that corporations against the
liability that they would be Laden with
if the data on their servers was
compromised but that is by no means the
same thing as having a police force
that's accessible to people individual
people who are actually the victims of
criminal activity those aren't the same
things at all it's like armed guards at
a safe in a bank compared to police on
the street that are designed that are
there to protect Ordinary People or who
can be called is that have I got that
about right yes uh and and digital crime
is crime so this is when you're stealing
grandmother when you're stealing
grandmother's money that is theft we
don't need a lot of new laws what we
need to do is actively engage with the
digital digital ecosystem to try to get
in front of the problem to reduce um
overall numbers of attacks which reduces
the number of of victims and to date
when we think about digital safety it's
predominantly education and then
increasing support for
victims victims are post attack they've
already had their money stolen getting
in front of that is is the key we've got
to start to reduce digital harm I've
been doing this for for a good number of
years and and the end of that
conversation does reside with local and
state governments and ultimately the
federal government is going to have in
the United States is going to have to
find resources to actively protect
beyond having discussions about
legislating you know data control or or
social media um as as a problem okay so
I'm trying to wrestle with how this is
possible even in principle so now you
said that for example what your company
does is and we'll get back into that is
produce virtual victims in a sense false
virtual victim so that you can attract
the criminals so that you can see what
they're doing so I presume that you can
report on what you find to the company
so that they can decrease their the the
susceptibility they have to exploitation
by these Bad actors but that's that's
not the same thing is actually tracking
down the criminals and holding them
responsible for their predatory activity
and I'm curious about what you think
about how that's possible even in
principle is first of all these
criminals tend to be or can easily be uh
acting at a great distance in
jurisdictions where they're not likely
to be held accountable in any case even
by the authorities or maybe they're even
the authorities themselves but also as
you pointed out more and more it's
possible for the criminal activity to be
occurring on the local machine and so
that makes it even more undetectable
so I don't see I can't understand easily
you obviously in a much better position
to comment on this how even in
principle there can be such a thing as
let's say an effective digital police
force like even if you find the activity
that someone's engaged in and you can
bring that to a halt by changing the way
the data is handled that doesn't mean
you've identified the criminals or or
held them accountable
so what if anything I can't understand
how that could proceed even in principle
so so the the digital ecosystem is made
up of a supply chain just like every
other industry there are various steps
that a piece of content is going to go
through before it winds up on your phone
so it's it's it's running through a
number of different companies different
Cloud Solutions different servers that
that put content out okay they're
intermediaries and so a relationship
between those digital police with the
governments and those entities on a
tactical basis is really the first step
seeing crime and then reporting that
back up the chain so that it can be
stopped higher and higher up towards
ultimately the the initiation point of
where that content is delivered so it it
it seems fantastic but it is possible
well the criminals need to have they
need to use intermediary processes in
order to get access to the local devices
and so you're saying that I believe
believe that that those
intermediary agencies could be enticed
forced compelled invited to make it much
more difficult for the criminals to
utilize their services I guess that's
and that that might actually be
effective that does that that still
doesn't does that Aid in the
identification of the actual criminals
themselves because I mean that's the
advantage of the justice system right is
you actually get your hands on the
criminal at some point yes and and I
think ultimately it does so the the you
you have to start and you have to start
to build the information about where
it's coming from you then have to
cooperate with the private entities our
our digital streets are are managed and
made up of private companies it's not a
government-run internet all of the
information that's fed to us at least in
Western Society um is coming from these
private companies and so I think rather
than having an antagonistic relationship
between governments and private
companies where they're trying to
legislate to put them into a position
that that may be appropriate for certain
rules and regulations it may be
appropriate to raise the age of of
accessing social media from 13 to 16 um
or 18 and that is a a proper place for
the government to be legislating on the
other hand an eye towards reducing crime
is critical and and the the ethical and
moral mindset among all of the parties
and that's governments through um
through our corporations has to be
solely on protecting people and I think
that's something that that is
significantly missing it's missing in
the legislation it's missing in cyber
security it's not something that we've
engaged in as as a society so there are
a few there are a few countries and and
I think even a few States in in the US
um that are looking at a broader hole of
society approach that hole of society
approach is is a a mimicking of how the
internet and the digital ecosystem Works
which is certainly a whole of society um
activity right so it it is the thing
that influences and affects all of us
every single moment of every single day
engaging in that looking across the
impact of society and doing better via
cooperation is a critical critical Next
Step how often do you think the typical
elderly person in the United States say
is being successfully no is being first
communicated with by criminal agents and
then how
often successfully communicated
with what's the scope of the problem the
the scope is if if you're a if you're a
senior citizen in particular if you're a
female senior citizen roughly 78 to
about 85 years old we see that two and a
half to 3% of every single page
impression or app view is attempting to
Target you with some form of crime or or
or influence that's going to move you
towards crime so it is it is highly
highly significant um it it in some ways
looking at this is shooting fish in a
barrel to make a dent so you're you're
concerned that the the legal system
isn't going to be able to find the
criminals there is so much to detect and
stop and so much room to turn them off
quickly right that we we can gain a
significant reduction in digital crime
by working together and considering
society as a whole instead of the
different pockets and how can we
legislate or how can we try to move a
private company to to do better on their
own okay so let's now let's Okay so we
talked a little bit about the danger
that's posed by one form of con game in
relationship to potential criminal
victims and that was senior romance
scams what are the other primary dangers
that are posed to seniors and then let's
go through your list you talked about
17year olds who are being sold online
access to drugs that includes now by the
way a burgeoning market
in under over the under the table
hormonal treatments for kids who are
who've had induced gender dysphoria so
you talked about seniors 17y olds who
are being marketed elicited drugs 14y
olds who are being enticed into let's
say modeling and people who are sick and
infirm so those are four major
categories let's start with the seniors
again aart apart from romance scams what
are the most common forms of criminal
incursion that you see the most common
form is the the tech support or or
upgrade scam and essentially the the
internet knows that you are a senior
when you're going to a website that you
and I would visit instead of having a
nice relationship with that site and
reading the content and then moving on
to something else you're getting a popup
or some form of of information that's
telling you there's something wrong with
your computer you either need to call
the phone number or you need to click a
button which then moves you down to
something something else that that is
more significant um this has happening
millions and millions and millions of
times per day uh and and it is it is
something that we can all do something
about attempting to educate seniors to
to try to not listen to the computer
when it's telling you to do something is
is not working um so that no well no
wonder I mean look to to to manage that
it's so sophisticated because you know
once you've worked with computers for 20
years especially if you grew up with
them you know when your computer your
phone is telling you something that's
actually valid and when it isn't it
doesn't even look this a lot of these
criminal notifications they don't even
look right they look kind of amateurish
they don't they don't have the same
aesthetic that you'd expect if it was a
genuine communication from your phone
but man you have to know the ecosystem
to be able to distinguish that kind of
message from the typical thing your
phone or any website might ask you to do
and educating seniors it's not just a
matter of describing to them that this
might happen it's they would have to be
techsavvy cell phone users and it's hard
enough to do that if you're young you
know much less if you're outside that
whole technological Revolution so I
can't see the educational
approach the the criminals are just
going to outrun that as fast as it
happens so yeah so that's pretty so 3% a
that's a lot that's about what you'd
expect yeah yeah it's it is it is highly
significant um and I I think getting in
front of this problem requires
cooperation with with States moving that
tactically to have the idea of a police
force looking at digital and I think one
of the things that that both sides
whether it's private companies or or
States needs to to to wrap their head
around um is that there's going to be a
Cooperative motion to do better
with people in
mind yeah all right so let's move to the
other categories of likely victim so
unless is so you talked about romance
scams and also uh computer upgrade
repair and error scams for seniors is
there any other domains where seniors
are particularly susceptible Al so I I I
think what I'd put into context is uh a
lot of the data collection that results
in uh people getting phone calls with a
a voice voice copy of their grandchild
right which then ultimately is is going
to result in a scam um it is that
digital connection that is the leading
point that drives the ability to commit
those types of crimes the ability to
marry their grand their their grandson
or granddaughter's voice with their
digital Persona and then finding a phone
number that they can use um to call them
so there's a lot of action happening
just in our daily interactions that's
ultimately being moved out into the
ecosystem um that we have to take a look
at that is not that is that is not easy
to fix right so that that's a right well
and then you're going to have right well
you're going to have that deep fake
problem too where those systems that use
your grandchild's voice will actually be
able to have a conversation with you
targeted to you in that voice in real
time and we're probably no more than
well the technical capacity for that's
already there I imagine we're no more
than about a year away from widespread
adoption of exactly that tactic so I you
know I've been talking to some lawmakers
in Washington about such things about
protection of digital identity and one
of the Notions I've been toying with
maybe you can tell me what you think
about this is that the production of a a
deep fake this the theft of someone's
digital
identity to be used to impersonate them
should be a crime that's equivalent in
severity to kidnapping
that's what it looks like to me you know
because if I can use my daughter's if I
can use your daughter's voice in a
real-time conversation to scam you out
of your life savings it's really not
much different than me holding her at
gunpoint and forcing her to do the same
thing and so I don't know like if you've
given some consideration to severity of
crime or even classification but theft
of digital identity looks to me
something very much like kidnapping what
do you like any thoughts about that yeah
I for for me I I I would simplify it a
little bit that using section 230 or the
First Amendment to to try to claim that
the the use of our personal identity um
to do something online when it's a crime
doesn't make sense so if it's being used
we we want to simplify this first we
don't need a broad broad-based um rule
on identity necessarily before we simply
state that if someone's using this for a
crime it's a crime
um and that that is going to be
prosecuted um if you're if you're caught
and detected which then goes back to to
to actually catching and detecting that
um the way that that ultim that uses the
pre-existent that uses the pre-existent
legal framework and doesn't require much
of a move but I'm concerned that the
criminals will just be able to
circumvent that as the legal as the
technology as a technology develops and
that that was why why I was thinking
about something that might be a more a
deeper and more Universal approach I
know it's harder to implement
legislatively but but that was that was
the thinking behind it anyway so yeah I
for for for us the there is a path that
leverages that content to bring it to
the device and I think understanding
that that mechanism and how it's brought
forward versus looking at the content
and I'll I'll give you an example of
what's happening in political
advertising um as we speak uh
understanding the pathway for how that
content is delivered is ultimately how
we get back to uh to the criminal or the
entity that's using that to to
perpetrate the crime the actual creation
of the content is incredibly difficult
to stop it's when it moves out to our
devices that it becomes something um
that we need to be really paying
attention to so in in political
advertising up to uh October of this
past year our customers asked us to flag
the presence of AI source code so the
idea there was they they didn't want to
be caught holding the bag of being
caught being the server of AI generated
political content right because that
just it it looks bad in the news
someone's letting someone use AI it's
going to wind up being disinformation or
some form of
deake by October we essentially stopped
using that policy because we had
achieved greater than 50% of the content
that we were scanning had some form of
AI it may have been to make the Sun a
little more yellow the ocean a little
bit more blue but using that as a flag
right to understand what's being
delivered out once you get over 50%
you're looking at more um uh than than
you're not looking at that's not a good
automated method to to execute on
digital safety um so as as we've as we
move forward we we have a a a reasonably
sophisticated model to detect deep fakes
very much still in in a test mode but
it's you know it's starting to pay some
some dividends and unquestionably what
we see is using the idea of deep fakes
to create fear is significantly greater
than the use of deep fakes now that's
limited to a political advertising
conversation we're not seeing a lot of
deep fake um serving in in information
or certainly not in the paid content
side um but the idea of fearing what's
being delivered to the to the consumer
is very much becoming part of of a
mainstream
conversation starting a business can be
tough but thanks to Shopify running your
online storefront is easier than ever
Shopify is the global Commerce platform
that helps you sell at every stage of
your business from the launch your
online shop stage all the way to the did
we just hit a million orders stage
Shopify is there to help you grow our
marketing team uses Shopify every day to
sell our merchandise and we love how
easy it is to add more items ship
products and track conversions Shopify
helps you turn browsers into buyers with
the internet's best converting checkout
up to 36% better compared to other
leading e-commerce platforms no matter
how big you want to grow Shopify gives
you everything you need to take control
and take your business to the next level
sign up for a $1 per month trial period
at shopify.com jbp go to shopify.com jbp
now to grow your business no matter what
stage you're in that's shopify.com
jbp yeah well wasn't wasn't there some
insistance from the White House itself
in the last couple of weeks that some of
the
claims that the Republicans were making
with regards to Biden were a consequence
of deep fake audio not video I don't
think but audio if I got that right do
you does that story ring a bell and and
I I think where we are at at this stage
in technology is very likely there is
plenty of deep fake audio happening
around the candidates so whether you're
Donald Trump or or Joe Biden or even uh
local uh political campaigns it's it's
really that straightforward um I think
on the video decide there are going to
be people um working on it left and
right I think it's the idea of using
that as as a weapon to to sew some some
form of confusion among the populist
doubt is some doubt is going to be
dramatically more valuable than the
actual utilization of defects to to move
Society oh that's you do a you so so you
do think that even even if the
technology develops to the point where
it's easy to use so you think that it'll
be weaponization of the of the doubt
that's swed by the fact that such things
exist and and we're we've been watching
this for a very very long time and our
perspective is coming at this from a
from a digital crime and a a safety in
content safety in content typically
means don't run adult content in front
of children don't serve weapons uh in
New York state they're they're not going
to like that don't have a couple walking
down the beach in Saudi Arabia right
their their their Ministry of of media
is going to be very unhappy with the
digital company that's bringing that
kind of content in I have the beholder
safe content drugs and alcohol right
targeting the the wrong kinds of people
so so we look at this from a um a lens
of how do you find and remove things
from the ecosystem if we continue down
the path that we're on today most people
won't trust what they see and and so
we're we're discussing education they're
going to self evolve to a point where so
much of the information that's being fed
to them is just going to be disbelieved
cuz it's it's it's going to be safer um
to to not go down that to go down that
path I'm wondering if live events for
example are going to
become once again
extremely compelling and popular because
they'll be the only events that you'll
actually be able to trust I I I think
you're I I think it's also critical that
that we find a way to to get a handle on
kind of the anti- newss and and get back
the the the anti is promoting trust in
journalism um that that is a very
meaningful conversation and it is
something that we need to try to get
back to it's much less expensive to have
automation or create something that's
going to create some kind of situation
where people continue to click that's a
terrible relationship with the digital
ecosystem it's it's not good for people
to have that um in their hand and you
know with with the with the place where
digital crime is today if if you're a
senior citizen your relationship is
often net negative uh with the internet
right you you may want to stick to
calling your kids on on voice over IP
where you can see their face lots of
different ways to do that in in video
calling but doing other things on the
internet including things as simple as
is email it it may be more dangerous um
to to engage than any benefit you know
that you're going to get back and I I
think as we move closer to that moment
in time this is where we all need to be
picking up and focusing on digital
safety focusing on the consumer um I I
think corporates are are going to have
to engage on that okay okay so let let
me ask you a question about that
because one of the things I've been
thinking about is that a big part of
this problem is that way too much of
what you can do on the net is free free
now the the problem with free is that
let's take Twitter for example well if
it's free then it's 20% psychopath pass
and 30%
Bots because there's no barrier to entry
and so wherever maybe there's a rule
like this is wherever the discourse is
free the Psychopaths and the the
Psychopaths will eventually come to
dominate and maybe quite rapidly the
Psychopaths and the exploiters because
there's no barrier to entry and there's
no consequence for
misbehavior so like we're putting
together a social media platform at the
moment that's part of an online
university and
our subscription price will be something
between $30 and $50 a month which is not
inexpensive although compared to going
to University it's virtually free um you
know and we've been concerned about that
to some degree because it's
comparatively expensive for like a
social media network but possibly the
advantage is that it would keep the
criminal players at a minimum right
because it seems to me that as you
increase the cost cost of accessing
people you decrease people's ability to
do well
lowcost you know multi-person monitoring
of the sort that casts a wide net and
that costs no money so do have you what
are your thoughts about the fact that so
much of this online pathology is
proliferating
because when we have free access to a
service so to speak the criminals also
have free access to us am I barking up
the wrong tree or does that seem no I
does it mean that the internet is going
to become more siloed and more private
because of
that I I think it's going to go in in
two ways so one you will find safety in
how much money you spend and and that's
already true so when when when there are
pay walls pay Walls Within even large
news sites um the deeper you go into the
pay wall the higher the cost to reach
the consumer right not just coming from
the consumer but even through with
advertising and other content uh
producers the the lower the activity of
the criminal because it's more expensive
for them to do business that that is
true right that's been true okay okay
true true
throughout I think the other requirement
because we're very acclimated to having
free content is that the entire supply
chain is going to have to engage so when
you think through who who was
responsible for the last mile of of
content that's able to reach our devices
inside of our home right is that the big
Tel code is that of um the companies
that are giving us Wi-Fi and and
bringing data into our houses right now
they're putting their hands back and
it's it's not our job to understand what
happens to you on your device if
anything there's a data requirement that
says we're not allowed to know or we're
not allowed to keep keep track of where
you go and and what comes on to your
device there's a big difference between
monitoring where we go online and what
is delivered into our device and this is
missing from the conversation privacy is
critically important and privacy is
about how we engage in our activities on
the internet the other side of that is
what happens after the data about us is
collected and that piece is not
something that is necessarily private it
should not be broadcast what is
delivered to us but someone needs to
understand and have some control over
what is actually brought in based on the
data that is is collected and that is a
whole of society meaning all of the
companies all of the entities that are
part of this um ultimate transaction to
put that piece of content on our on our
phone and our laptop and our TV need to
get involved in better protecting people
one of the primary issues is there are
so many events trillions of events per
day on all of our devices that even when
you have pay walls the the problem is so
huge that you can always find access to
to to people's machines until we get
together and do something better about
it okay okay okay so pay walls in some
ways are a partial solution but but
they're okay so that's useful to know
now do you have I want to ask you a
specific question then we'll go back to
classes of people who are being targeted
by criminals I want to continue walking
through your list do you have specific
legislative suggestions that you believe
would be helpful at the federal or state
level
and do you are you in contact with
people as much as you'd like to be who
are legislators who are interested in
contemplating such legislative moves I
went the reason I'm asking is because I
went to
Washington probably the same time I met
you and I was talking to a variety of
lawmakers on the hill there who are
interested
in digital identity security but you
know it isn't obvious that they know
what to do because it's well it's
complicated you might say it's extremely
complicated and I think the big tech
companies are in some ways in the same
boat so do you already have access to
people sufficiently as far as you're
concerned who are drawing on your
expertise to determine how to make the
digital realm uh less criminally rif
place I I I would always like more
access what what I find is that the
state governments are are really where
the action is and and when I say and
they're closer to they're closer to
people right so the the federal
government is is quite far away from you
know a grandmother or um uh someone in
high school the state governments know
the people who run the hospitals they
know people at at Senior Communities
they um they understand what's happening
on the ground they're also much closer
if not managing uh overall police forces
right so that may be down at the county
level or or other types of districts but
they understand a daily police force so
I I think the what we're seeking is to
influence states to take tactical action
and if that requires legislation what
that would be is putting funds forward
to police people from digital crime the
same way that they're policing people or
helping to police crime against people
um in their homes walking down the
street on our on our highways um in our
back right the the typical type of of
crime we're 20 years in from data
collection data targeting third party
code kind of dominating our relationship
uh with with our devices um it is the
one piece that governments really
haven't started to work on a whole lot
the the United Kingdom on the other hand
has three different agencies that are
that they've been given the authority to
tactically and actively engage with the
digital ecosystem so those are the
companies that make up the cloud that
serve advertising and serve content that
build websites and e-commerce systems
they're finding problems and then
they're engaging tactically with that
digital supply chain to turn off attacks
it's the beginning are they are are they
doing that in a manner that's analogous
to the approach that you're taking the
the creation of these virtual victims
and the analysis of I think the they're
mostly it's receiving feedback from
people that are that are being targeted
and getting enough information about
those to then move it
um Upstream legislation that would say
that a a synthetic Persona in a
particular local geography counts as
crime that would be a big leap for for
governments to take that would be very
very useful in in the ability to go out
and and actually prosecute but I I think
that's that that's going to be a very
very difficult solution I think the
problem U must be addressed in
cooperation uh with with big Tech and
digital media and that as a police force
in a local market content is targeted
locally it's Geo fenced right so
something is going to be served into the
state of Tennessee differently than it's
served into New York State as that
information is gathered it should be
given to those who can turn off attacks
quickly that is crime reduction and then
ultimately be working together where if
if there's certainty that there is a
crime and the companies that are part of
the supply chain have information on the
actual criminal that they're sharing
that in a way that one they're they're
not getting in trouble for sharing the
information but two they're collectively
moving Upstream to that demand Source
that's bringing the content um to our
device I think that becomes a natural
flow at some point in the future the
faster we get there um the better and I
I want to make sure that I'm I'm making
this clear that's not about protecting a
machine that's about protecting the
person at the other end of the machine
and keeping that mindset uh is critical
right right okay so let's go back to
your list of victims so you were talking
about you mentioned 17-year-old males
who are being um offered the opportunity
to buy drugs online so tell us about
that market I don't know much about that
at all so and and do you have some sense
of how widespread first of all if the
17-year-old is being targeted to
purchase illicit drugs are they being
put in touch with people who actually do
Supply the ilicit drugs like has has the
drug marketing Enterprise been well
established online and can you flesh
that out what what does that look like
yeah so so this is a place where the
biggest Tech and digital media companies
have done a very good job removing uh
that from from digital advertising and
targeted content on on their pipes but
that is still something that that's
happening every single day and and
actually growing predominantly through
social media channels or or interactions
between the person who's going to end up
selling the drugs and and the person
could be in any country this this is
coming through um through the mail or
it's it's leading to the streets um and
making a purchase but but what I can
give you uh if I'm going to get these
numbers right roughly um 2,000 deaths
from from fentanyl or similar drugs in
the Commonwealth of Virginia in
2023 and the belief is that greater than
50% of those drug transactions began
online um so it is a it is a predominant
location for uh for for the targeting of
people to buy informing people that the
drugs are available and then ultimately
making the sale okay okay and they're
you and they and they break down the
demographics in the same way making the
presumption that males in in all
likelihood of a particular age are the
most likely targets and
using I wonder what other demographic
information would be relevant if you
were trying to Target the typical
drug
seeker I don't know okay so then you
talked about 14-year-old girls who are
being targeted by human
traffickers and so and you mentioned
something about um
modeling yeah so if if there's going to
be a a a core profile um you know a lwh
hanging fruit profile for human
traffickers um young females that are
interested in in things like modeling uh
uh fashion presenting themselves out on
social media are going to be a a high
high
Target often that is going to be the the
the people that are that are finding
their way to become friends with them
and and using that information
psychologically to to have a
relationship but there's also the
algorithms in place that enable entities
to put code on device which allows them
to continue to track them and find them
off platform off social media as well
right and what what's the scope of that
problem do like you said that it it's
something in the neighborhood of 3% of
the interactions that the typical
elderly woman between you said I think
78 and 855 something like that 3% of the
interactions they're having online are
facilitated by criminals what's the
typical situation for a 14-year-old girl
who's been doing a fair bit of fashion
shopping online that that that is
incredibly difficult we we don't have
that data okay incredibly difficult to
find but but it's something that's
happening on a on a daily routine basis
okay so it's something for people to be
aware of if they have adolescent girls
who are interacting online yeah
yes I imagine they're targeted in all
sorts of ways and then you mentioned
people who are looking for medical
information online who are sick and
infirm and then obviously in a position
to be targeted by scammers in
consequence of that so so that and and
if if you want to put it into context of
of frequency senior citizens are the
highest targeted and then the next
highest targeted segment are going to be
those searching for some form of of
medical solution to a problem oh yeah
okay so they're number two okay and and
that is that is a that is a heavy
desperation moment um they're also often
traveling back and forth to health
facilities whether they're in a hospital
directly or they're moving back and
forth between doctor's offices that
information is made available you can
buy people who visit you know Health
places on a routine basis and then
they're very easy they're they're
desperate and so they're very easy to
suck in um to a problem it it really
ranges from from stealing money so
having access to bank accounts uh to
fishing attacks where you're suggesting
that they become part of a program
you're Gathering more and more
information on them to then do um future
attacks um to selling scam products so
one of the great phenomenons in in
digital media during covid especially in
the first maybe 9 10 months was
targeting seniors and then people with
any form of illness explaining to them
how Co is going to do something very
very bad to you buy this product now and
those were scams so the product rarely
showed up it certainly wasn't very very
useful those may be kind of low you know
they're low problem on a per uh crime
basis but when you look at it across
Society the impact is spectacularly huge
okay when okay what why is the impact
spectacularly huge if you if you look at
it in that manner uh well the for the
the numbers add up right so they're
spending more and more and more money um
which is a big big issue but it it also
feeds the the mindset of
I'm going to that the computer is going
to tell me something it's going to
create some sort of concern within me if
they weren't looking at the computer it
never would have occurred to them to
look for the problem um in the first
place and so in addition to stealing our
money it's stealing our time and it's
creating a a a great sense of fear that
people are then living with and and kind
of walking around all day wondering my
computer told me this thing I'm very
concerned about it um it's continuing to
feed more information the more you click
the more afraid you become which which
becomes a very very big impact on on
society so I don't know if you know this
but it's it's an interesting fact it's
it's a extremely interesting fact in my
estimation do you know that sex itself
evolved to deal with
parasites I did
not okay so here's the here's the
idea I mean I don't know if there's
there are very few truths that are more
fundamental than this
one
so parasites are typically simpler than
their
hosts so they can breed faster and what
that means is that in an arm race
between host and parasites the parasites
can win because they breed faster so
they can evolve
faster so sex evolved to confuse the
parasites imagine that the best way for
your genes to replicate themselves would
be for you
to breed partha genetically you just
clone
yourself there's no reason for a sexual
partner when you have a sexual partner
half your genes are left behind that's a
big cost to pay if the goal is Gene
propagation the parasite problem is so
immense that sexually reproducing
creatures and that's the bulk of
creatures that there are sexually
producing creatures are willing to
sacrifice half their genes to mix up
their physiology so that parasites can't
be transmitted perfectly from generation
to
generation so the parasite problem is so
immense that it caus the evolution of
sex and creatures will sacrifice half
their genes to prevent it so what that
implies like we have this whole new
digital
ecosystem right which is a biological
Revolution for all intents and purposes
it's a whole new level of reality and
the parasite problem is very likely to
be overwhelming I mean we have police
forces we have laws we have prisons to
deal with parasites in their human form
but now we have a whole new ecosystem
that is amenable to the invasion of the
parasites and they are coming like mad I
mean in all sorts of forms I mean we
don't even know how extensive the
problem is to some degree because
there's not just the criminals that you
talk about they're bad enough or they're
bad but we also have the online troll
types who use social media to spread
derision and to play sadistic tricks in
games and to manipulate for attention
and we know that they're sadistic
Psychopathic MCU valan and narcissistic
because the psychological data is
already in they fall into the parasite
category and we also have all that quasi
criminal activity like
pornography and so it's certainly
possible that if
the internet in some sense is a new
ecosystem full of new life forms that it
could be swamped by the parasites and
taken
out that's that that's the that's what
you'd predict from a biological
perspective looking at the history of
life and so this is an
unbelievably deep and profound problem
see I I kind of think this is one of the
main dangers of this untrammeled online
criminality is that societies themselves
tend
to undergo revolutionary collapse when
the parasites get the upper hand and
it's definitely the case by that by
allowing the unregulated
flourishing of parasitical criminals
online that we risk we really risk
destabilizing our whole
society because when they when those
sorts of people become
successful that's very bad news for
everyone else it doesn't take that many
of them to really cause trouble so
anyways that's a bit of a segue into
well it's it's it's it's pretty
fascinating a couple quick points here
so so
one the the primary concern for the
entities in digital is on their
content versus the consumer so there's
content to Jacy the the largest flag we
have for Content that's brought by Third
parties that's going to run on someone
else's content is the Israel Hamas
conflict the reason for that is the less
about having a person get upset than it
is for having a large brand like
Coca-Cola or Proctor and Gamble have
other content that's going to run near
that Israel Hamas context right just in
vicinity yeah yeah that and that that is
that is a that is worrying about pixels
or perhaps the name of a corporation
more than the impact on the grandmother
right who's going to be hit in the next
impression with the crime and so we
we're still in a in a in a nent spot
within the tech infrastructure where
those who would provide the capital to
provide us with all of those free
services are dominating the conversation
that's part of why a government needs to
step in and say we're going to focus um
on on crime what that also does when
getting getting back to a parasitic
Evolution and what's the sacrifice um
that big Tech digital media and the
corporates the brands are going to make
in order to prot protect grandmothers
right now the the the bigger concern is
about what might be fake so because it's
wasting a penny or a fraction of a penny
when a pixel is delivered to an end
device the spend is about monetizing
each individual you know nanc to to
pixel that's going to run in front of us
versus um the consumer and I think this
is this is an incredibly myopic
Viewpoint digital safety for the brand
is about making sure the picture of
their product is in a happy location
while grandmothers are losing bank
accounts and I think I think that
evolution is going to require a
sacrifice I think the companies that
that engage in digital safety and and
many big Tech and digital media
companies go way out of their way to to
do a go good job protecting people
ultimately they're going to win because
the relationship with with us is going
to be so much significantly better and
and protected and trusted that they're
just going to wind up um interfacing
with us uh uh better than than those who
are trying to protect their own right
right right right right now that's an
optimist well that makes sense to me
that's an optimistic view because I mean
fundamentally what makes companies
wealthy reliably over the long run is
the bond of trust that they have with
their
customers right that's what brand that's
what a that's really what a brand worth
is in the final analysis I mean Disney
was worth a fortune as a brand because
everybody trusted
both their products and the intent
behind them and so that's a very hard
thing to build up but it is the basis of
wealth I mean trust is the basis of
wealth and so it's interesting to
contemplate the fact that that means
that it might be in the best interests
of the large online companies to ensure
the safety of the people who at rather
than the safety of their products the
safety of the people who are using their
services that's a good that's an
interesting to think about okay so let
me maybe we
can close at least this part of the
discussion with a bit of a further
investigation into these these virtual
Persona that you're creating that work
as
the false targets of criminal activity
tell me tell me about them and tell me
how many of them approximately if you
can I don't want to interfere with any
Trade Secrets but like how many what
kind of volume of
false personas are you producing to
attract criminal activity and is that
something that can be increasingly AI
mediated yes so so it is it we we use
manual processes but we also use U AI in
continuous scanning of of digital assets
to keep those profiles active so our our
job isn't so much to to become a
grandmother to the world it's to have
certain components that enable big Tech
or ADD serving or content delivery to
perceive us to be that and so we're
we're really kind of gaming back um uh
to the system to find those those
objects or or those Persona kind of
classifications on device whether that's
actual phones or or televisions or or
actual um computers and then to run the
content with as much of that as possible
so we're running millions of
combinations of of potential um
consumers some of them are many many
profiles at the same time uh because you
it it's not going to discern between um
different activities as long as you have
something that leans towards what
they're looking for um but then what
what gets very interesting is a a
predominance of the content is an
auction model and so you have to fit
within price points of what the
criminals um are trying to attract as
well which is not always uh people with
a lot of money it's everyone um in the
ecosystem and so we're we're very much
becoming a very nuanced set of personas
millions of these a very very critical
component is geography right so um
they're going to Target a specific Town
differently um I don't know if you've
had any offers from uh from your
government to buy you solar panels there
aren't actually a lot of government
programs that going to pay for your
solar solar panels those are typically
some some forms of scams and they're
directed at a local market what's very
interesting right now is that rather
than using AI to design content to pull
you in better we're seeing more and more
of similar content designed so that it's
harder to pull it down once it's made B
right so they'll make 30 copies where
there used to be one or two so you can
pull down 1520 and there's still going
to be 10 or 15 left right right right
right so what a strange World e where we
have the
proliferation of AI enabled victims
victim decoys to decoy AI enhanced
online criminals from preing yes a AI is
used for safety to defend us from AI we
we we have hit that
moment yeah well so then you know I was
just trying to contemplate briefly what
sort of evolutionary arms race
that produces right hyper victims and
super criminals something like that
Jesus weird well that you know there is
some worry that that ultimately it's
it's a horsepower game right so when
when it's AI versus AI the more computer
horsepower you have um the the more
likely it is that your AI is going to
win and
and at the media trust our job is to to
make the digital ecosystem safer for
people we're not all that concerned
about one AI beating another AI unless
that's in context of having a
grandmother not lose her bank account
right that that that is the the the core
gist of how we look at it which is
different than an enamor relationship
with technology and seeking Technology
Solutions for a technical problem this
is a human issue um and without the
personas are human Reflections back into
the delivery of content it's not about
the machine how are you feeling about
your chances
of control over on or our chances for
that matter of control over online
criminality
and how successful do you believe you
are in your attempts to stay on top of
and ahead of the criminal activity that
you're trying to fight yeah for for our
customers that prioritize digital safety
it is
a the vast majority of what might run
through to attack someone um is being
detected and removed uh they they need
to have the appropriate mindset they
need to be willing to go up to the to to
the demand source to remove um bad
activity that's that's going to be
coming down you don't just want to play
whacka ball you have to engage in in
that next step um those that do are are
very successful and create safe
environments it is not possible to make
this go away the pipes the way that the
internet works the way the data
targeting works it it's just not
something you can eliminate entirely um
but there are companies that that are in
front of this that will withhold
millions of dollars in Revenue at any
given moment to prevent the possibility
of targeting something uh and and having
something bad happen uh but there are a
lot of companies that that are not
willing to go that far I think right now
in in some of the bigger companies we
see a lot of risk towards this who's
going to win the chat GPT who's going to
win the llm um race there is there is so
much at stake um in in that from a
competitive and and revenue perspective
the companies that can and monetize that
the best um are going to start to Leap
Forward when you're looking at the world
from a how does my technology win versus
how do I safely get my technology to do
the things that I want that's when you
start to run a lot of risk we're in a in
a risk on phase in digital right now
right but but your earlier claim I think
which is worth returning to was that
over any reasonable period of time
there's the rub the companies that do
what's necessary to ensure the trust
what what you say the the to
ensure that their users can trust the
interactions with them are going to be
the ones that are arguably best position
to maintain their economic advantage in
the years to come and and I the
problem yes and those that are willing
to engage with with governments to do a
better job to ultimately find the Bad
actors and and and take them down um
they're going to be a big part of making
the ecosystem better rather than
insulating and hiding behind a sort of
risk legal regime um that's going to not
want to bring data forward to clean up
the ecosystem okay okay okay well for
everybody watching and listening I'm
going to continue my discussion with
Chris Olsen on The Daily wire side of
the interview where I'm going to find
out more about well how how he built his
company and how his interest in
prevention understanding and preventing
online crime developed and also what his
plans for the future are and so if those
of you who are watching and listening
are inclined to join us on the daily wi
side that would be much appreciated
thank you to everybody who is watching
and listening for your time and
attention and thank thank you very much
Mr olssen for well fleshing out our
understanding of the perils and
possibilities that await us as the
internet rolls forward at an ever
increasing rate and also for I would say
alerting everybody who's watching and
listening to the what would you say the
particular points of access that the
online criminals have at the
moment when we're in our most
vulnerable States sick
young seeking old all of those things
because we all have people we all know
people who are in those categories and
are looking for ways to protect them
against the people that you're also
trying to protect us from so thank you
very much for that thank you thanks for
having us me you bet you bet and again
thanks for to everybody who's watching
listening to the film crew down here in
Chile today in Santiago thank you very
much for your help today guys and to the
Daily wire people for making this
conversation possible that's much
appreciated thanks very much much Mr
Olson good to talk to you thank you
[Music]